# Solutions for Gaussian Error Messages (migration work in progress)
This is an article containing reliable explanations and ways to solve the error messages for almost all common Gaussian quantum chemistry program. This is a per request English translation for [a long blog in Chinese](http://bbs.keinsci.com/thread-4829-1-1.html) I wrote a few years back. I wrote the original Chinese post as there are almost no reliable list of how to solve the errors. Similar online resources online are neither comprehensive nor accurate.

This blog is for people with basic knowledge of how Gaussian works, what's the basic structure of Gaussian files, and a basic understanding of quantum chemistry.

Using (including part of) this blog in commercial setting (or for any profitable action) is prohibited. Otherwise feel free to use this material as long as you mention the source.

I'm not related to Gaussian Inc. in any way.

## List of errors
### General errors
 * [Severe Error Message # 2070 (Windows)](#SevereErrorMessage2070)
 * [segmentation violation/segmentation fault (Linux)](#SevereErrorMessage2070)
### Errors raised by specific links
 * [**L1**，ntrex1](#1200)
 * [**L1**，Illegal IType or MSType generated by parse.](#1100)
 * [**L1**，QPErr --- A syntax error was detected in the input line.](#1300)
 * [**L101**，End of file in ZSymb.](#700)
 * [**L101**，WANTED A XXX AS INPUT. FOUND AN XXX AS INPUT.](#800)
 * [**L101**，Input Error Input Error Input Error Input Error Input Error Input Error](#900)
 * [**L103**，Error in internal coordinate system](#600)
 * [**L103**，Linear angle in Bend; Linear angle in Tors](#600)
 * [**L103**，FormBX had a problem](#600)
 * [**L103**，NRF ne Abs NRFX](#2500)
 * [**L103**，New curvilinear step not converged. Error imposing constraints.](#2300)
 * [**L103**，Bad arguments to LAPack or BLAS routine.](#3700)
 * [**L114**，ERROR IN INITNF. NUMBER OF VARIABLES (  0) INCORRECT (SHOULD BE BETWEEN 1 AND 50)](#1800)
 * [**L202**，Problem with the distance matrix.](#1000)
 * [**L202**，Atoms too close.](#1000)
 * [**L123**，Max corrector steps exceded](#500)
 * [**L123**，GS2 Optimization Failure.](#500)
 * [**L123**，GetHes: LRWHes > LHess!](#2600)
 * [**L202**，Atoms too close.](#00)
 * [**L301**，The combination of multiplicity X and XXX electrons is impossible.](#1500)
 * [**L301**，End of file reading basis center.](#700)
 * [**L301**，EOF while reading ECP pointer card.](#700)
 * [**L301**，No solvent atoms in DisRep.](#2400)
 * [**L301**，Atomic number out of range for XXX basis set.](#1400)
 * [**L301**，R6DS8: Unable to choose the S8 parameter](#1600)
 * [**L301**，R6DRCv: No RCov radius available for IA=XX](#1700)
 * [**L301**，R6DC6: No C6 coefficient available for IA=XX](#1700)
 * [**L401**，Diagonalization in DiagDN via DSPEV failed.](#3700)
 * [**L502**，Convergence failure](#100)
 * [**L502**，Inaccurate quadrature in CalDSu.](#300)
 * [**L502**，Inv3 failed in PCMMkU](#2100)
 * [**L508**，Convergence failure](#200)
 * [**L508**，Inv3 failed in PCMMkU](#2100)
 * [**L602**，GetVDW:  no radius for atom XX atomic number XX.](#2800)
 * [**L801**，Excessive mixing of core and valence orbitals.](#1900)
 * [**L801**, Fatal Problem: The smallest alpha delta epsilon is XXXXXX](#2000)
 * [**L906**，Internal consistency failure #1 in GetIJB.](#3700)
 * [**L913**，\*MAX. CYCLES\*](#2200)
 * [**L914**，XXXXXX words are not enough for AIAXAO.](#3400)
 * [**L914**，Unable to match L and R vectors in BiOrth](#3700)
 * [**L1002**，Inaccurate quadrature in CalDSu.](#300)
 * [**L1002**，No func 3rd derivs with XXX.](#2700)
 * [**L1002**，NIJ > Max2 in MMCore.](#3700)
 * [**L1002**，XXXXXX words are not enough for AIAXAO.](#3400)
 * [**L1014**，Tx not orthogonal to T](#3700)
 * [**L9999**，Optimization stopped.](#400)
### Computer/OS related errors
#### CPU
 * [Error: illegal instruction, illegal opcode](#2900)
#### File
 * [Internal input file was deleted!](#3000)
 * [open-new-file](#3100)
 * [Error Message # 2066. Can't create file Temp input file 'gxx.inp'](#3200)
#### Hard drive
 * [Erroneous write](#3300)
 * [g_write](#3300)
#### Memory
 * [needs more words of memory](#3400)
 * [Not enough memory to run at all](#3400)
 * [Out-of-memory error in routine XXX](#3400)
 * [galloc:  could not allocate memory.](#3500)
### Difficult cases
 * [NtrErr Called from XXXXXX.](#3600)
### What does a Gaussian Bug look like
 * [Is it a bug?](#3700)
### Abnormal situations that doesn't give an error message
 * [IRC job stopped prematuraly, or goes in the another direction](#3800)
 * [One or more small imaginary frequencies after optimization](#3900)
 * [G09 Windows exit at L1.exe without an error message](#4000)
 * [Abnormal bonding / unbonding in GaussView](#4100)
 * [Viewing IRC jobs in GaussView, it gives an abnormally low energy point at the X=0 point](#4200)
### Normal outputs that could be mistanken as errors
 * [Warning!!: The largest alpha MO coefficient is...](#4800)
 * [Warning!!: The smallest alpha delta epsilon is...](#4800)
 * [Error on total polarization charges](#4900)
 * [This type of calculation cannot be archived.](#5000)
 * [No special actions if energy rises.](#5100)
 * [DIIS: error](#5200)
 * [End of XXXXXX F.D. properties file   XXX does not exist.](#5300)
### Other common questions
 * [When opening chk or fchk files with GaussView: Missing or bad data: Alpha Orbital Energies](#4300)
 * [“How long will this calculation takes?”](#4400)
 * [How to generate an inital guess for transition state geometry optimization with flexiable scan](#4500)
 * [“How to put a charge / electron on this atom / fragment?"](#4600)
 * [How to calculate activation-strain (distortion-interaction) energy](#4700)

## Explanation and solution for the errors
For ones who would like to read this in whole, the order of the following sections is different from the [list of errors](#List-of-errors) above. Use the anchor links if you would like to navigate to specific errors.

### General errors
<a name="SevereErrorMessage2070"></a>
####  · Severe Error Message # 2070 (Windows)
####  · segmentation violation/segmentation fault (Linux)
#
### SCF Convergence
<a name="100"></a>
####  · L502，Convergence failure
#
<a name="200"></a>
####  · L508，Convergence failure
#
### Post-HF Convergence
<a name="2200"></a>
####  · L913，\*MAX. CYCLES\*
#
### Geometry Optimization Convergence
<a name="400"></a>
####  · L9999，Optimization stopped.
#
<a name="500"></a>
####  · L123，Max corrector steps exceded
####  · L123，GS2 Optimization Failure.
#
### Geometry Manipulation
<a name="600"></a>
####  · L103，Error in internal coordinate system
####  · L103，Linear angle in Bend; Linear angle in Tors
####  · L103，FormBX had a problem
#
<a name="2300"></a>
####  · L103，New curvilinear step not converged. Error imposing constraints.
#
### Nonsense Input File (Formatting / Structure / Route)
<a name="700"></a>
####  · L101，End of file in ZSymb.
####  · L301，End of file reading basis center.
####  · L301，EOF while reading ECP pointer card.
#
<a name="800"></a>
####  · L101，WANTED A XXX AS INPUT. FOUND AN XXX AS INPUT.
#
<a name="900"></a>
####  · L101，Input Error Input Error Input Error Input Error Input Error Input Error
#
<a name="1100"></a>
####  · L1，Illegal IType or MSType generated by parse.
#
<a name="1300"></a>
####  · L1，QPErr --- A syntax error was detected in the input line.
#
<a name="1500"></a>
####  · L301，The combination of multiplicity X and XXX electrons is impossible.
#
<a name="1000"></a>
####  · L202，Problem with the distance matrix.
####  · L202，Atoms too close.
#
<a name="1400"></a>
####  · L301，Atomic number out of range for XXX basis set.
#
<a name="1600"></a>
####  · L301，R6DS8: Unable to choose the S8 parameter
#
<a name="1700"></a>
####  · L301，R6DRCv: No RCov radius available for IA=XX
####  · L301，R6DC6: No C6 coefficient available for IA=XX
#
<a name="2400"></a>
####  · L301，No solvent atoms in DisRep.
#
<a name="2800"></a>
####  · L602，GetVDW:  no radius for atom XX atomic number XX.
#
<a name="2700"></a>
####  · L1002，No func 3rd derivs with XXX.
#
<a name="2500"></a>
####  · L103，NRF ne Abs NRFX
#
### Computer / OS Related Problems
<a name="2900"></a>
####  · Error: illegal instruction, illegal opcode
#
<a name="3000"></a>
####  · Internal input file was deleted!
#
<a name="3100"></a>
<a name="1200"></a>
####  · open-new-file
####  · L1，ntrex1
#
<a name="3200"></a>
####  · Error Message # 2066. Can't create file Temp input file 'gxx.inp'
#
<a name="3300"></a>
####  · Erroneous write
####  · g_write
#
<a name="3400"></a>
####  · L914，XXXXXX words are not enough for AIAXAO.
####  · L1002，XXXXXX words are not enough for AIAXAO.
####  · needs more words of memory
####  · Not enough memory to run at all
####  · Out-of-memory error in routine XXX
#
<a name="3500"></a>
####  · galloc:  could not allocate memory.
#
### Others
<a name="300"></a>
####  · L502/L1002，Inaccurate quadrature in CalDSu.
#
<a name="1800"></a>
####  · L114，ERROR IN INITNF. NUMBER OF VARIABLES (  0) INCORRECT (SHOULD BE BETWEEN 1 AND 50)
#
<a name="1900"></a>
####  · L801，Excessive mixing of core and valence orbitals.
#
<a name="2000"></a>
####  · L801, Fatal Problem: The smallest alpha delta epsilon is XXXXXX
#
<a name="2100"></a>
####  · L502/L508，Inv3 failed in PCMMkU
#
<a name="2600"></a>
####  · L123，GetHes: LRWHes > LHess!
#
<a name="3600"></a>
### Difficult cases
####  · NtrErr Called from XXXXXX.
#
<a name="3700"></a>
### Probably known bugs
####  · What does a Gaussian Bug look like?
Some known bugs:
 * L103，Bad arguments to LAPack or BLAS routine.
 * L401，Diagonalization in DiagDN via DSPEV failed.
 * L906，Internal consistency failure #1 in GetIJB.
 * L914，Unable to match L and R vectors in BiOrth
 * L1002，NIJ > Max2 in MMCore.
 * L1014，Tx not orthogonal to T
#
### Normal outputs that could be mistanken as errors
<a name="4800"></a>
#### Warning!!: The largest alpha MO coefficient is...
#### Warning!!: The smallest alpha delta epsilon is...
#
<a name="4900"></a>
#### Error on total polarization charges
#
<a name="5000"></a>
#### This type of calculation cannot be archived.
#
<a name="5100"></a>
#### No special actions if energy rises.
#
<a name="5200"></a>
#### DIIS: error
#
<a name="5300"></a>
#### End of XXXXXX F.D. properties file   XXX does not exist.
#
### Abnormal situations that doesn't give an error message
<a name="3800"></a>
####  · IRC job stopped prematuraly, or goes in the another direction
#
<a name="3900"></a>
####  · One or more small imaginary frequencies after optimization
#
<a name="4000"></a>
####  · G09 Windows exit at L1.exe without an error message
#
<a name="4100"></a>
####  · Abnormal bonding / unbonding in GaussView
#
<a name="4200"></a>
####  · Viewing IRC jobs in GaussView, it gives an abnormally low energy point at the X=0 point
#
<a name="4300"></a>
####  · "Missing or bad data: Alpha Orbital Energies" when opening chk or fchk files with GaussView
#
<a name="4400"></a>
### Other common entry-level questions
####  · “How long will this calculation takes?”
#
<a name="4500"></a>
####  · How to generate an inital guess for transition state geometry optimization with flexiable scan
#
<a name="4600"></a>
####  · “How to put a charge / electron on this atom / fragment?"
#
<a name="4700"></a>
####  · How to calculate activation-strain (distortion-interaction) energy
#
